Visible text of https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/620-credit-score/
Fetched 2026-09-08 with curl; scripts, styles and tags removed.

620 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? - Experian Skip to main content You are using an unsupported browser. Our site may still be usable, but full functionality cannot be guaranteed. Sign in Search Credit Credit Free credit report See your latest credit information Free credit score Get to know your FICO ® Score Experian Boost ® Raise your credit scores instantly Experian Go™ Establish and build your credit Credit support Security freeze Disputes Fraud alert Contact us Credit advice Most popular What is a good credit score? Credit score ranges Average credit score in the U.S. Improving your credit How to build credit What is a credit bureau? Freeze your credit at all 3 credit bureaus How credit utilization impacts credit Credit reports How to remove credit inquiries Collections on your credit report What is a charge-off? How bankruptcy works Get credit reports from all 3 credit bureaus Check your credit report and file disputes How to remove a paid collection Credit scores Impact of paying off a credit card Reasons to have a good credit score Does checking credit score lower it? What is a perfect credit score? Different types of credit scores What factors affect your credit score? How the FICO ® Score Simulator works Why did your credit score drop? Improving credit Reasons your credit score isn’t increasing Will credit improve after debt payoff? Does a mortgage hurt your credit score? How to build credit with credit cards How to repair your credit What is Experian Boost? How utility bills can boost your credit How often a credit report is updated Establishing credit How to build credit with no credit history How to establish credit How to get first-time credit How to get credit with no credit history Credit mistakes to avoid How long does it take to build credit? How credit history affects your credit Credit cards for no credit Protection Protection Identity theft and fraud ID monitoring, alerts and protection Free dark web scan Scan for your SSN, phone and email Free personal privacy scan Find your info on people finder sites Identity Theft support Security freeze Fraud alert Disputes Contact us Identity Theft Advice Most popular What is identity theft? Fraud alert and credit freeze differences Remove fraud from your credit report Identity theft statistics What are the latest scams? Identity theft and fraud How to check for identity theft What if your Social Security number is stolen? How to avoid identity theft Types of identity theft How to protect your identity What is a fraud alert? Do fraud alerts expire? Cybersecurity What is the dark web? What is dark web monitoring? What to do about a data breach Protect your information from the dark web Tips for victims of credit card fraud What is a VPN? Privacy How to protect your info online Remove your info from people search sites How to get off robocall lists Social media safety tips Identity thieves and your personal info How to keep your SSN safe Money Money Manage your expenses Save on your monthly bills and cancel unwanted subscriptions Access cash Get cash when you need it—no interest, no late fees Digital savings account Discover a smarter way to grow your savings Digital checking account Check out a digital checking account with no monthly fees Money advice Most popular Best high-yield savings accounts Best CD rates Best money market accounts Challenges to help you save money Can you deposit money at any ATM? Savings accounts that pay high interest Opening a high-yield savings account Pros and cons of high-yield savings Save money on bills Tips for spending money wisely How to make a budget Ways to reduce expenses Ways to plan for unexpected expenses What is an emergency fund? Ways to save money What is a budget? Why is budgeting important? Access cash Best budgeting apps of 2026 What is the 50/30/20 budget rule? What is a zero-based budget? How to make a budget spreadsheet Pros and cons of debt consolidation Debt snowball strategy: how does it work? 20 ways to make extra money from home Can you direct deposit into a savings account? Digital savings account Current average savings interest rates Benefits of having a savings account Types of savings accounts Ways to earn more money on your savings Is savings account interest taxable? Average savings by age How many savings accounts should I have? Savings calculator Digital checking account What is Experian Smart Money? How do bank account bonuses work? Why was I denied a checking account? What is a high-yield checking account? Earn cash back with a debit card Pros and cons of premium checking Routing number vs. account number Why was my debit card declined? Credit Cards Credit Cards All credit card types Balance transfer Cash back For bad credit Low interest Rewards Secured Credit Card advice Most popular How to pay off credit card debt How many credit cards should I have? How to use credit cards Which credit card should I get? What is an APR? Average credit card debt Credit card payoff calculator Balance transfer How balance transfers work How long does a balance transfer take? What are balance transfer credit cards? What is a balance transfer? What is a credit utilization rate? Cash back How cash back works What is a credit card cash advance fee? Cash back vs. points For bad credit Applying for a credit card with bad credit Balance transfer cards with bad credit Getting a credit card after bankruptcy Easy store cards to get with bad credit APR What is a good APR? Lowering your credit card interest rate Fed interest rate impact on credit cards How much available credit is best? APR calculator Rewards How to choose a rewards credit card Are rewards credit cards worth it? What is a rewards credit card? Ways to redeem credit card rewards Credit score needed to get a rewards card New to credit What is a secured credit card? How to use a secured credit card Secured vs. prepaid credit cards How to get a secured credit card Secured credit card with no deposit Can I get an unsecured credit card? Loans Loans All loan types Debt consolidation Personal Loan types Quick loans Emergency loans Bad credit loans Unsecured loans Small loans $5,000 loans Personal loan for car Loan advice Most popular What is a personal loan? Emergency loans with bad credit What is a secured loan? How do personal loans impact credit? Personal loan calculator APR vs. interest rate Debt consolidation Personal loans to pay off credit card debt Payday loan consolidation What is debt consolidation? How to get a debt consolidation loan Personal Getting a personal loan with no credit check What to know before applying for a loan What is a credit-builder loan? Average personal loan debt Getting a personal loan with a cosigner Insurance Insurance Auto insurance Compare, switch and save Auto Insurance Advice Most popular Average cost of car insurance Cheapest states for car insurance Bundling home and auto insurance Top car insurance discounts How to save on car insurance Factors that impact car insurance rates How accidents affect insurance Liability vs. full coverage car insurance Sign in Consumer Small Business Business Consumer Support Financial Guidance Global Sites Advertiser Disclosure 620 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? In this article How to improve your 620 Credit Score Learn and grow your credit score Past deeds (and misdeeds) feed your credit score Learn and grow your credit score Learn more about your credit score A FICO ® Score Θ of 620 places you within a population of consumers whose credit may be seen as Fair. Your 620 FICO ® Score is lower than the average U.S. credit score. 17% of all consumers have Scores in the Fair range (580-669). Statistically speaking, 28% of consumers with credit scores in the Fair range are likely to become seriously delinquent in the future. Some lenders dislike those odds and choose not to work with individuals whose FICO ® Scores fall within this range. Lenders focused on "subprime" borrowers, on the other hand, may seek out consumers with scores in the Fair range, but they typically charge high fees and steep interest rates. Consumers with FICO ® Scores in the good range (670-739) or higher are generally offered significantly better borrowing terms. How to improve your 620 Credit Score Think of your FICO ® Score of 620 as a springboard to higher scores. Raising your credit score is a gradual process, but it's one you can begin right away. 84% of U.S. consumers' FICO ® Scores are higher than 620. You share a 620 FICO ® Score with tens of thousands of other Americans, but none of them has that score for quite the same reasons you do. For insights into the specific causes of your score, and ideas on how to improve it, get copies of your credit reports and check your FICO ® Score . Included with the score, you will find score-improvement suggestions based on your unique credit history. If you use those guidelines to adopt better credit habits , your score may begin to increase, bringing better credit opportunities. Learn and grow your credit score While everyone with a FICO ® Score of 620 gets there by his or her own unique path, people with scores in the Fair range often have experienced credit-management challenges. The credit reports of 95% of Americans with a FICO ® Score of 620 include late payments of 30 days past due. Credit reports of individuals with Fair credit cores in the Fair range often list late payments (30 days or more past due) and collections accounts , which indicate a creditor has given up trying to recover an unpaid debt and sold the obligation to a third-party collections agent. Some people with FICO ® Scores in the Fair category may even have major negative events on their credit reports, such as foreclosures or bankruptcies—events that severely lower scores. Full recovery from these setbacks can take up to 10 years, but you can take steps now to get your score moving in the right direction. Studying the report that accompanies your FICO ® Score can help you identify the events that lowered your score. If you correct the behaviors that led to those events, work steadily to improve your credit , you can lay the groundwork to build up a better credit score. Past deeds (and misdeeds) feed your credit score Credit-scoring systems such as FICO ® use information compiled in your credit reports to calculate your score. More recent events in your credit history tend to count more than older activities and, as with any type of analysis, some kinds of information carry more weight than others. Knowing which activities matter most can help you prioritize the steps to take when working toward a better credit score: Late and missed payments are among the most significant factors to your credit score. More than one-third of your score (35%) is influenced by the presence (or absence) of late or missed payments. Lenders want borrowers who pay their bills on time, and individuals who have missed payments are statistically more likely to default (go 90 days past due without a payment) than those who pay their bills on time. If late or missed payments are part of your credit history, you can do yourself and your credit score a favor by developing a routine for paying your bills promptly. Utilization rate on revolving credit is responsible for nearly one-third (30%) of your credit score. Utilization, or usage rate, is a technical way of describing how close you are to "maxing out" your credit card accounts. You can measure your utilization on an account-by-account basis by dividing each outstanding balance by the card's spending limit, and multiplying by 100 to get a percentage. You can also calculate your total utilization rate by dividing the sum of all balances by the sum of all spending limits. Balance Spending limit Utilization rate (%) MasterCard $1,200 $4,000 30% VISA $1,000 $6,000 17% American Express $3,000 $10,000 30% Total $5,200 $20,000 26% Most experts agree that utilization rates in excess of 30%— on individual accounts and all accounts in total—tend to lower credit scores. The closer any of these utilization rates gets to 100%, the more it hurts your credit score. Age is your friend . All other factors being the same, the longer you've been a user of credit, the higher your credit score is likely to be. There's not much that can be done about that if you're a new borrower, and it also doesn't help much if your recent credit history is marred by late missed payments or high utilization rates. If you manage your credit carefully and stay timely with your payments, however, your credit score will tend to increase with time. Length of credit history is responsible for as much as 15% of your credit score. Your total debt and its composition are responsible for about 10% of your credit score. The FICO ® credit scoring system tends to favor individuals with multiple credit accounts, consisting of a mix of installment loans (e.g., car loans, mortgages and student loans, with set monthly payments and fixed payback periods) and revolving credit (accounts such as credit cards that enable you to borrow against a spending limit and make payments of varying amounts each month). Credit applications and new credit accounts typically have short-term negative effects on your credit score. When borrowers apply for new credit or take on additional debt, they assume greater risk of being able to pay their bills. Credit scoring systems like FICO ® typically cause scores to dip a bit when that happens, but scores will typically rebound within a few months as long as you keep up with all your payments. New-credit activity can contribute up to 10% of your overall credit score. Public records such as bankruptcies have severe negative impacts on your credit score if they appear on your credit report. Because they do not appear in every credit report, these entries cannot be compared to other credit-score influences in terms of percentage, but they can eclipse all other factors and severely lower your credit score. A bankruptcy, for instance, can remain on your credit report for 10 years, and may effectively prevent you from getting credit for much or all of that time. Learn and grow your credit score Fair credit scores can't be turned into exceptional ones overnight, and only the passage of time can repair some negative issues that contribute to Fair credit scores, such as bankruptcy and foreclosure. No matter the reason for your Fair score, you can start immediately to improve the ways you handle credit, which can lead in turn to credit-score improvements. Look into obtaining a secured credit card . A secured credit card requires you to put down a deposit in the full amount of your spending limit—typically a few hundred dollars. Confirm that the As you use the card and make regular payments, the lender reports your activity to the national credit bureaus, where they are recorded in your credit files. (Making timely payments and avoiding "maxing out" the card will favor credit-score improvements. Consider a credit-builder loan . Available from many credit unions, these loans take can several forms, but all are designed to help improve personal credit histories. In one popular version, the credit union places the money you borrow in a savings account, where it earns interest but is inaccessible to you until the loan is paid off. Once you've paid the loan in full, you get access to the funds and the accumulated interest. It's a clever savings tool, but the credit union also reports your payments to national credit bureaus, so regular, on-time payments can lead to credit-score improvements. (Check before taking out a loan to make sure the lender reports to all three national credit bureaus.) Consider a debt-management plan . For families with finances stretched too thin to keep up with debt payments, a debt-management plan (DMP) can bring much-needed relief. Getting one requires you to work with a qualified credit counseling agency, who negotiates with your creditors to set up a workable repayment plan. It's a serious step that significantly lowers your credit score and effectively closes all your credit accounts, but it's less severe than bankruptcy, and it can help families in dires straits get back on their feet. Even if you decide a DMP isn't for you, meeting with a credit counselor (not a credit-repair company) may give you some new tools for building up your credit. Pay your bills on time . Late and missed payments hurt credit scores, so avoid them. Take advantage of automatic payments, calendar alarms, and other automated tools—or just use sticky notes and a paper calendar. Do whatever you can to help you remember, and you'll soon take on good habits that favor credit-score improvements. Avoid high credit utilization rates . High credit utilization , or debt usage. The FICO ® scoring system bases about 30% of your credit score on this measurement—the percentage of your available credit limit represented by your outstanding payment balances. Try to keep your utilization across all your accounts below about 30% to avoid lowering your score. Among consumers with FICO ® credit scores of 620, the average utilization rate is 57.2%. Try to establish a solid credit mix . You shouldn’t take on debt you don’t need, but prudent borrowing, including a combination of revolving credit and installment debt, can be beneficial to your credit score. Learn more about your credit score A 620 FICO ® Score is a good starting point for building a better credit score. Boosting your score into the good range could help you gain access to more credit options, lower interest rates, and reduced fees. You can begin by getting your free credit report from Experian and checking your credit score to find out the specific factors that impact your score the most. Read more about score ranges and what a good credit score is. How good is your credit score? Enter your credit score Examples:  600 , 700 , 780 , 803 What makes a good FICO ® Score? Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICO ® Score for free and see what’s helping and hurting your score. Get your FICO ® Score No credit card required Explore more topics Report advice Improve credit Establishing credit Credit repair Life stages Fraud & identity theft Share article Experian is a globally recognized financial leader, committed to being a Big Financial Friend—empowering millions to take control of their finances. With innovative tools and expert guidance, we’re here to help you manage your credit, protect your identity, and save on loans, credit cards, and more. Our goal is simple: to help bring Financial Power to All™. Support Support Security freeze Fraud alert Disputes Denied credit Identity theft victim assistance Active duty military Opt out of prescreen offers Upload a document to Experian Education & advice Education & advice Credit report & scores Fraud & identity theft Banking Credit cards Loans Insurance Mortgage Investing Personal finance News & research Credit resources Credit resources Free credit monitoring 3-bureau reports & FICO ® Scores Check credit Improve credit Establish credit Experian CreditLock Annual credit report Download the free Experian app Carry trusted financial tools with you Experian’s Inclusion and Belonging Learn more how Experian is committed Data privacy Your privacy choices Legal terms & conditions Privacy center U.S. Consumer Data Privacy Notice Press Ad choices Careers Investor relations Contact us To view important disclosures about the Experian Smart Money™ Digital Checking Account and Digital Savings Account, visit  experian.com/legal . The Experian Smart Money™ Debit Card is issued by Community Federal Savings Bank (CFSB), pursuant to a license from Mastercard International. Banking services provided by CFSB, Member FDIC. Experian is a Program Manager, not a bank. Θ Credit score calculated based on FICO ® Score 8 model. Your lender or insurer may use a different FICO ® Score than FICO ® Score 8, or another type of credit score altogether. Learn more . Editorial Policy: The information contained in Ask Experian is for educational purposes only and is not legal advice. You should consult your own attorney or seek specific advice from a legal professional regarding any legal issues. Please understand that Experian policies change over time. Posts reflect Experian policy at the time of writing. While maintained for your information, archived posts may not reflect current Experian policy. Opinions expressed here are author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer or other company, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities, unless sponsorship is explicitly indicated. All information, including rates and fees, are accurate as of the date of publication and are updated as provided by our partners. Some of the offers on this page may not be available through our website. Offer pros and cons are determined by our editorial team, based on independent research. The banks, lenders, and credit card companies are not responsible for any content posted on this site and do not endorse or guarantee any reviews. Advertiser Disclosure: The offers that appear on this site are from third party companies that may compensate Experian Consumer Services when consumers engage with them, for example, by clicking an offer link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened. This compensation may impact how, where, and in what order the products appear on this site. The offers on the site do not represent all available financial services, companies, or products. *For complete information, see the offer terms and conditions on the issuer or partner’s website. Once you click apply you will be directed to the issuer or partner’s website where you may review the terms and conditions of the offer before applying. We show a summary, not the full legal terms – and before applying you should understand the full terms of the offer as stated by the issuer or partner itself. While Experian Consumer Services uses reasonable efforts to present the most accurate information, all offer information is presented without warranty. © 2026 Experian. All rights reserved. Experian and the Experian trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Experian and its affiliates. The use of any other trade name, copyright, or trademark is for identification and reference purposes only and does not imply any association with the copyright or trademark holder of their product or brand. Other product and company names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. Marketplace Licenses and Disclosures Insurance State Licenses Insurance Carrier Partner Details
