Visible text of https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/550-credit-score/
Fetched 2026-09-08 with curl; scripts, styles and tags removed.

550 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? - Experian Skip to main content You are using an unsupported browser. Our site may still be usable, but full functionality cannot be guaranteed. Sign in Search Credit Credit Free credit report See your latest credit information Free credit score Get to know your FICO ® Score Experian Boost ® Raise your credit scores instantly Experian Go™ Establish and build your credit Credit support Security freeze Disputes Fraud alert Contact us Credit advice Most popular What is a good credit score? Credit score ranges Average credit score in the U.S. Improving your credit How to build credit What is a credit bureau? Freeze your credit at all 3 credit bureaus How credit utilization impacts credit Credit reports How to remove credit inquiries Collections on your credit report What is a charge-off? How bankruptcy works Get credit reports from all 3 credit bureaus Check your credit report and file disputes How to remove a paid collection Credit scores Impact of paying off a credit card Reasons to have a good credit score Does checking credit score lower it? What is a perfect credit score? Different types of credit scores What factors affect your credit score? How the FICO ® Score Simulator works Why did your credit score drop? Improving credit Reasons your credit score isn’t increasing Will credit improve after debt payoff? Does a mortgage hurt your credit score? How to build credit with credit cards How to repair your credit What is Experian Boost? How utility bills can boost your credit How often a credit report is updated Establishing credit How to build credit with no credit history How to establish credit How to get first-time credit How to get credit with no credit history Credit mistakes to avoid How long does it take to build credit? How credit history affects your credit Credit cards for no credit Protection Protection Identity theft and fraud ID monitoring, alerts and protection Free dark web scan Scan for your SSN, phone and email Free personal privacy scan Find your info on people finder sites Identity Theft support Security freeze Fraud alert Disputes Contact us Identity Theft Advice Most popular What is identity theft? Fraud alert and credit freeze differences Remove fraud from your credit report Identity theft statistics What are the latest scams? Identity theft and fraud How to check for identity theft What if your Social Security number is stolen? How to avoid identity theft Types of identity theft How to protect your identity What is a fraud alert? Do fraud alerts expire? Cybersecurity What is the dark web? What is dark web monitoring? What to do about a data breach Protect your information from the dark web Tips for victims of credit card fraud What is a VPN? Privacy How to protect your info online Remove your info from people search sites How to get off robocall lists Social media safety tips Identity thieves and your personal info How to keep your SSN safe Money Money Manage your expenses Save on your monthly bills and cancel unwanted subscriptions Access cash Get cash when you need it—no interest, no late fees Digital savings account Discover a smarter way to grow your savings Digital checking account Check out a digital checking account with no monthly fees Money advice Most popular Best high-yield savings accounts Best CD rates Best money market accounts Challenges to help you save money Can you deposit money at any ATM? Savings accounts that pay high interest Opening a high-yield savings account Pros and cons of high-yield savings Save money on bills Tips for spending money wisely How to make a budget Ways to reduce expenses Ways to plan for unexpected expenses What is an emergency fund? Ways to save money What is a budget? Why is budgeting important? Access cash Best budgeting apps of 2026 What is the 50/30/20 budget rule? What is a zero-based budget? How to make a budget spreadsheet Pros and cons of debt consolidation Debt snowball strategy: how does it work? 20 ways to make extra money from home Can you direct deposit into a savings account? Digital savings account Current average savings interest rates Benefits of having a savings account Types of savings accounts Ways to earn more money on your savings Is savings account interest taxable? Average savings by age How many savings accounts should I have? Savings calculator Digital checking account What is Experian Smart Money? How do bank account bonuses work? Why was I denied a checking account? What is a high-yield checking account? Earn cash back with a debit card Pros and cons of premium checking Routing number vs. account number Why was my debit card declined? Credit Cards Credit Cards All credit card types Balance transfer Cash back For bad credit Low interest Rewards Secured Credit Card advice Most popular How to pay off credit card debt How many credit cards should I have? How to use credit cards Which credit card should I get? What is an APR? Average credit card debt Credit card payoff calculator Balance transfer How balance transfers work How long does a balance transfer take? What are balance transfer credit cards? What is a balance transfer? What is a credit utilization rate? Cash back How cash back works What is a credit card cash advance fee? Cash back vs. points For bad credit Applying for a credit card with bad credit Balance transfer cards with bad credit Getting a credit card after bankruptcy Easy store cards to get with bad credit APR What is a good APR? Lowering your credit card interest rate Fed interest rate impact on credit cards How much available credit is best? APR calculator Rewards How to choose a rewards credit card Are rewards credit cards worth it? What is a rewards credit card? Ways to redeem credit card rewards Credit score needed to get a rewards card New to credit What is a secured credit card? How to use a secured credit card Secured vs. prepaid credit cards How to get a secured credit card Secured credit card with no deposit Can I get an unsecured credit card? Loans Loans All loan types Debt consolidation Personal Loan types Quick loans Emergency loans Bad credit loans Unsecured loans Small loans $5,000 loans Personal loan for car Loan advice Most popular What is a personal loan? Emergency loans with bad credit What is a secured loan? How do personal loans impact credit? Personal loan calculator APR vs. interest rate Debt consolidation Personal loans to pay off credit card debt Payday loan consolidation What is debt consolidation? How to get a debt consolidation loan Personal Getting a personal loan with no credit check What to know before applying for a loan What is a credit-builder loan? Average personal loan debt Getting a personal loan with a cosigner Insurance Insurance Auto insurance Compare, switch and save Auto Insurance Advice Most popular Average cost of car insurance Cheapest states for car insurance Bundling home and auto insurance Top car insurance discounts How to save on car insurance Factors that impact car insurance rates How accidents affect insurance Liability vs. full coverage car insurance Sign in Consumer Small Business Business Consumer Support Financial Guidance Global Sites Advertiser Disclosure 550 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? In this article How to improve your 550 Credit Score How to get beyond a Very Poor credit score What makes an impact on your credit scores Improving Your Credit Score Learn more about your credit score Your score falls within the range of scores, from 300 to 579, considered Very Poor. A 550 FICO ® Score Θ is significantly below the average credit score. Many lenders choose not to do business with borrowers whose scores fall in the Very Poor range, on grounds they have unfavorable credit. Credit card applicants with scores in this range may be required to pay extra fees or to put down deposits on their cards. Utility companies may also require them to place security deposits on equipment or service contracts. 16% of all consumers have FICO ® Scores in the Very Poor range (300-579). Roughly 62% of consumers with credit scores under 579 are likely to become seriously delinquent (i.e., go more than 90 days past due on a debt payment) in the future. How to improve your 550 Credit Score The bad news about your FICO ® Score of 550 is that it's well below the average credit score of 714. The good news is that there's plenty of opportunity to increase your score. 95% of consumers have FICO ® Scores higher than 550. A smart way to begin building up a credit score is to obtain your FICO ® Score . Along with the score itself, you'll get a report that spells out the main events in your credit history that are lowering your score. Because that information is drawn directly from your credit history, it can pinpoint issues you can tackle to help raise your credit score. How to get beyond a Very Poor credit score FICO ® Scores in the Very Poor range often reflect a history of credit missteps or errors, such as multiple missed or late payments, defaulted or foreclosed loans, and even bankruptcies. Among consumers with FICO ® Scores of 550, 33% have credit histories that reflect having gone 30 or more days past due on a payment within the last 10 years. Your FICO ® Score report can help you prioritize any credit missteps you should address first, but it's also good idea to get your credit reports from Experian and the other two national credit bureaus, Equifax and TransUnion. Familiarizing yourself with their contents can help you better understand the missteps in your credit history, so you'll know what to avoid as you work to build up your credit . If you work to develop better credit habits, you'll likely see improvements in your credit scores. What makes an impact on your credit scores While it’s useful to know the specific behaviors in your own credit history, the types of behaviors that can lower your credit score are well-known in general terms. Understanding them can help you focus your credit score-building tactics: Public Information : If bankruptcies or other public records appear on your credit report, they typically hurt your credit score severely. Settling the liens or judgments at the first opportunity can reduce their impact, but in the case of bankruptcy, only time can lessen their harmful effects on your credit scores. A Chapter 7 bankruptcy will remain on your credit report for up to 10 years, and a Chapter 13 bankruptcy will stay there for 7 years. Even though your credit score may begin to recover years before a bankruptcy drops off your credit file, some lenders may refuse to work with you as long as there’s a bankruptcy on your record. The average credit card debt for consumer with FICO ® Scores of 550 is $4,674. Improving Your Credit Score Converting a Very Poor credit score to a Fair (580-669) or a (670-739) Good one is a gradual process. It can’t be done quickly (and you should avoid any business or consultant that tells you otherwise). But you can start to see some steady score improvements within a few months if you begin immediately to develop habits that promote good credit scores. Here are some good starting points: Pay your bills on time . Yes, you’ve heard it before. But there’s no better way to improve your credit score. If you have accounts that are past-due or in collections. Avoid high credit utilization rates . Try to keep your utilization across all your accounts below about 30% to avoid lowering your score. Among consumers with FICO ® credit scores of 550, the average utilization rate is 71.3%. Consider a debt-management plan . If you're having trouble repaying your loans and credit cards, a debt-management plan could bring some relief. You work with a non-profit credit-counseling agency to work out a manageable repayment schedule. Entering into a DMP effectively closes all your credit card accounts. This can severely lower your credit scores, but your scores can rebound from it more quickly than they would from bankruptcy. If this sounds too extreme for you, you may still want to consulting a credit counselor (not a credit-repair outfit) to devise a game plan for improving your credit. Think about a credit-builder loan . Many credit unions offer these small loans, which are designed to help their members build up or rebuild their credit. There are several different types of credit-builder loan , but in one of the more popular ones, the credit union issues you a loan, but instead of giving you cash, they place it in an interest-bearing savings account. Once you've paid off the loan, you get access to the money plus the accumulated interest. It's partly a savings tool, but the real benefit comes as the credit union reports your payments to the national credit bureaus. As long as you make regular on-time payments, the loan can lead to credit-score improvements. (Before obtaining a credit-builder loan, make sure the credit union reports payments to all three national credit bureaus.) Apply for a secured credit card . A secured credit card typically has a small borrowing limit—often just a few hundred dollars— and you put down a deposit in the full amount of that limit. As you use the card and make regular payments, the lender reports those activities to the national credit bureaus, where they are recorded in your credit files and reflected in your FICO ® Scores. By making timely payments and avoiding "maxing out" the card, use of a secure credit card can promote improvements in your credit-score. Try to establish a solid credit mix . The FICO ® credit-scoring model tends to favor users with multiple credit accounts, and a blend of different types of loans, including installment loans like mortgages or auto loans and revolving credit such as credit cards and some home-equity loans. Learn more about your credit score Every growth process has to start somewhere, and a 550 FICO ® Score is a good beginning point for improving your credit score. Boosting your score into the fair range (580-669) could help you gain access to more credit options, lower interest rates, and reduced fees and terms. You can get rolling by getting your free credit report from Experian and checking your credit score to find out specific issues that are keeping your score from increasing. Read more about score ranges and what a good credit score is. How good is your credit score? Enter your credit score Examples:  600 , 700 , 780 , 803 What makes a good FICO ® Score? Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICO ® Score for free and see what’s helping and hurting your score. Get your FICO ® Score No credit card required Explore more topics Report advice Improve credit Establishing credit Credit repair Life stages Fraud & identity theft Share article Experian is a globally recognized financial leader, committed to being a Big Financial Friend—empowering millions to take control of their finances. With innovative tools and expert guidance, we’re here to help you manage your credit, protect your identity, and save on loans, credit cards, and more. Our goal is simple: to help bring Financial Power to All™. Support Support Security freeze Fraud alert Disputes Denied credit Identity theft victim assistance Active duty military Opt out of prescreen offers Upload a document to Experian Education & advice Education & advice Credit report & scores Fraud & identity theft Banking Credit cards Loans Insurance Mortgage Investing Personal finance News & research Credit resources Credit resources Free credit monitoring 3-bureau reports & FICO ® Scores Check credit Improve credit Establish credit Experian CreditLock Annual credit report Download the free Experian app Carry trusted financial tools with you Experian’s Inclusion and Belonging Learn more how Experian is committed Data privacy Your privacy choices Legal terms & conditions Privacy center U.S. Consumer Data Privacy Notice Press Ad choices Careers Investor relations Contact us To view important disclosures about the Experian Smart Money™ Digital Checking Account and Digital Savings Account, visit  experian.com/legal . The Experian Smart Money™ Debit Card is issued by Community Federal Savings Bank (CFSB), pursuant to a license from Mastercard International. Banking services provided by CFSB, Member FDIC. Experian is a Program Manager, not a bank. Θ Credit score calculated based on FICO ® Score 8 model. Your lender or insurer may use a different FICO ® Score than FICO ® Score 8, or another type of credit score altogether. Learn more . Editorial Policy: The information contained in Ask Experian is for educational purposes only and is not legal advice. You should consult your own attorney or seek specific advice from a legal professional regarding any legal issues. Please understand that Experian policies change over time. Posts reflect Experian policy at the time of writing. While maintained for your information, archived posts may not reflect current Experian policy. Opinions expressed here are author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer or other company, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities, unless sponsorship is explicitly indicated. All information, including rates and fees, are accurate as of the date of publication and are updated as provided by our partners. Some of the offers on this page may not be available through our website. Offer pros and cons are determined by our editorial team, based on independent research. The banks, lenders, and credit card companies are not responsible for any content posted on this site and do not endorse or guarantee any reviews. Advertiser Disclosure: The offers that appear on this site are from third party companies that may compensate Experian Consumer Services when consumers engage with them, for example, by clicking an offer link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened. This compensation may impact how, where, and in what order the products appear on this site. The offers on the site do not represent all available financial services, companies, or products. *For complete information, see the offer terms and conditions on the issuer or partner’s website. Once you click apply you will be directed to the issuer or partner’s website where you may review the terms and conditions of the offer before applying. We show a summary, not the full legal terms – and before applying you should understand the full terms of the offer as stated by the issuer or partner itself. While Experian Consumer Services uses reasonable efforts to present the most accurate information, all offer information is presented without warranty. © 2026 Experian. All rights reserved. Experian and the Experian trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Experian and its affiliates. The use of any other trade name, copyright, or trademark is for identification and reference purposes only and does not imply any association with the copyright or trademark holder of their product or brand. Other product and company names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. Marketplace Licenses and Disclosures Insurance State Licenses Insurance Carrier Partner Details
