Visible text of https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/700-credit-score/
Fetched 2026-09-08 with curl; scripts, styles and tags removed.

700 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? - Experian Skip to main content You are using an unsupported browser. Our site may still be usable, but full functionality cannot be guaranteed. Sign in Search Credit Credit Free credit report See your latest credit information Free credit score Get to know your FICO ® Score Experian Boost ® Raise your credit scores instantly Experian Go™ Establish and build your credit Credit support Security freeze Disputes Fraud alert Contact us Credit advice Most popular What is a good credit score? Credit score ranges Average credit score in the U.S. Improving your credit How to build credit What is a credit bureau? Freeze your credit at all 3 credit bureaus How credit utilization impacts credit Credit reports How to remove credit inquiries Collections on your credit report What is a charge-off? How bankruptcy works Get credit reports from all 3 credit bureaus Check your credit report and file disputes How to remove a paid collection Credit scores Impact of paying off a credit card Reasons to have a good credit score Does checking credit score lower it? What is a perfect credit score? Different types of credit scores What factors affect your credit score? How the FICO ® Score Simulator works Why did your credit score drop? Improving credit Reasons your credit score isn’t increasing Will credit improve after debt payoff? Does a mortgage hurt your credit score? How to build credit with credit cards How to repair your credit What is Experian Boost? How utility bills can boost your credit How often a credit report is updated Establishing credit How to build credit with no credit history How to establish credit How to get first-time credit How to get credit with no credit history Credit mistakes to avoid How long does it take to build credit? How credit history affects your credit Credit cards for no credit Protection Protection Identity theft and fraud ID monitoring, alerts and protection Free dark web scan Scan for your SSN, phone and email Free personal privacy scan Find your info on people finder sites Identity Theft support Security freeze Fraud alert Disputes Contact us Identity Theft Advice Most popular What is identity theft? Fraud alert and credit freeze differences Remove fraud from your credit report Identity theft statistics What are the latest scams? Identity theft and fraud How to check for identity theft What if your Social Security number is stolen? How to avoid identity theft Types of identity theft How to protect your identity What is a fraud alert? Do fraud alerts expire? Cybersecurity What is the dark web? What is dark web monitoring? What to do about a data breach Protect your information from the dark web Tips for victims of credit card fraud What is a VPN? Privacy How to protect your info online Remove your info from people search sites How to get off robocall lists Social media safety tips Identity thieves and your personal info How to keep your SSN safe Money Money Manage your expenses Save on your monthly bills and cancel unwanted subscriptions Access cash Get cash when you need it—no interest, no late fees Digital savings account Discover a smarter way to grow your savings Digital checking account Check out a digital checking account with no monthly fees Money advice Most popular Best high-yield savings accounts Best CD rates Best money market accounts Challenges to help you save money Can you deposit money at any ATM? Savings accounts that pay high interest Opening a high-yield savings account Pros and cons of high-yield savings Save money on bills Tips for spending money wisely How to make a budget Ways to reduce expenses Ways to plan for unexpected expenses What is an emergency fund? Ways to save money What is a budget? Why is budgeting important? Access cash Best budgeting apps of 2026 What is the 50/30/20 budget rule? What is a zero-based budget? How to make a budget spreadsheet Pros and cons of debt consolidation Debt snowball strategy: how does it work? 20 ways to make extra money from home Can you direct deposit into a savings account? Digital savings account Current average savings interest rates Benefits of having a savings account Types of savings accounts Ways to earn more money on your savings Is savings account interest taxable? Average savings by age How many savings accounts should I have? Savings calculator Digital checking account What is Experian Smart Money? How do bank account bonuses work? Why was I denied a checking account? What is a high-yield checking account? Earn cash back with a debit card Pros and cons of premium checking Routing number vs. account number Why was my debit card declined? Credit Cards Credit Cards All credit card types Balance transfer Cash back For bad credit Low interest Rewards Secured Credit Card advice Most popular How to pay off credit card debt How many credit cards should I have? How to use credit cards Which credit card should I get? What is an APR? Average credit card debt Credit card payoff calculator Balance transfer How balance transfers work How long does a balance transfer take? What are balance transfer credit cards? What is a balance transfer? What is a credit utilization rate? Cash back How cash back works What is a credit card cash advance fee? Cash back vs. points For bad credit Applying for a credit card with bad credit Balance transfer cards with bad credit Getting a credit card after bankruptcy Easy store cards to get with bad credit APR What is a good APR? Lowering your credit card interest rate Fed interest rate impact on credit cards How much available credit is best? APR calculator Rewards How to choose a rewards credit card Are rewards credit cards worth it? What is a rewards credit card? Ways to redeem credit card rewards Credit score needed to get a rewards card New to credit What is a secured credit card? How to use a secured credit card Secured vs. prepaid credit cards How to get a secured credit card Secured credit card with no deposit Can I get an unsecured credit card? Loans Loans All loan types Debt consolidation Personal Loan types Quick loans Emergency loans Bad credit loans Unsecured loans Small loans $5,000 loans Personal loan for car Loan advice Most popular What is a personal loan? Emergency loans with bad credit What is a secured loan? How do personal loans impact credit? Personal loan calculator APR vs. interest rate Debt consolidation Personal loans to pay off credit card debt Payday loan consolidation What is debt consolidation? How to get a debt consolidation loan Personal Getting a personal loan with no credit check What to know before applying for a loan What is a credit-builder loan? Average personal loan debt Getting a personal loan with a cosigner Insurance Insurance Auto insurance Compare, switch and save Auto Insurance Advice Most popular Average cost of car insurance Cheapest states for car insurance Bundling home and auto insurance Top car insurance discounts How to save on car insurance Factors that impact car insurance rates How accidents affect insurance Liability vs. full coverage car insurance Sign in Consumer Small Business Business Consumer Support Financial Guidance Global Sites Advertiser Disclosure 700 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? In this article How to improve your 700 Credit Score Understand the benefits of a good credit score Staying the course with your Good credit history How to build up your credit score Learn more about your credit score Your score falls within the range of scores, from 670 to 739, which are considered Good. The average U.S. FICO ® Score Θ , 714, falls within the Good range. Lenders view consumers with scores in the good range as "acceptable" borrowers, and may offer them a variety of credit products, though not necessarily at the lowest-available interest rates. 21% of U.S. consumers' FICO ® Scores are in the Good range. Approximately 9% of consumers with Good FICO ® Scores are likely to become seriously delinquent in the future. How to improve your 700 Credit Score A FICO ® Score of 700 provides access to a broad array of loans and credit card products, but increasing your score can increase your odds of approval for an even greater number, at more affordable lending terms. Additionally, because a 700 FICO ® Score is on the lower end of the Good range, you'll probably want to manage your score carefully to prevent dropping into the more restrictive Fair credit score range (580 to 669). 33% of consumers have FICO ® Scores lower than 700. The best way to determine how to improve your credit score is to check your FICO ® Score. Along with your score, you'll receive information about ways you can boost your score, based on specific information in your credit file. You'll find some good general score-improvement tips here. Understand the benefits of a good credit score A credit score in the good range may reflect a relatively short credit history marked by good credit management. It may also characterize a longer credit history with a few mistakes along the way, such as occasional late or missed payments, or a tendency toward relatively high credit usage rates . Late payments (past due 30 days) appear in the credit reports of 52% of people with FICO ® Scores of 700. Lenders see people with scores like yours as solid business prospects. Most lenders are willing to extend credit to borrowers with credit scores in the good range, although they may not offer their very best interest rates, and card issuers may not offer you their most compelling rewards and loyalty bonuses. Staying the course with your Good credit history Having a Good FICO ® Score makes you pretty typical among American consumers. That's certainly not a bad thing, but with some time and effort, you can increase your score into the Very Good range (740-799) or even the Exceptional range (800-850). Moving in that direction will require understanding of the behaviors that help grow your score, and those that hinder growth: Late and missed payments are among the most significant influences on your credit score—and they aren't good influences. Lenders want borrowers who pay their bills on time, and statisticians predict that people who have missed payments likelier to default (go 90 days past due without a payment) on debt than those who pay promptly. If you have a history of making late payments (or missing them altogether), you'll do your credit score a big solid by kicking that habit. More than one-third of your score (35%) is influenced by the presence (or absence) of late or missed payments. Utilization rate , or usage rate, is a technical way of describing how close you are to "maxing out" your credit card accounts. You can measure utilization on an account-by-account basis by dividing each outstanding balance by the card's spending limit, and then multiplying by 100 to get a percentage. Find your total utilization rate by adding up all the balances and dividing by the sum of all the spending limits: Balance Spending limit Utilization rate (%) MasterCard $1,200 $4,000 30% VISA $1,000 $6,000 17% American Express $3,000 $10,000 30% Total $5,200 $20,000 26% Most experts agree that utilization rates in excess of 30%—on individual accounts and all accounts in total—will push credit scores downward. The closer you get to “maxing out” any cards—that is, moving their utilization rates toward 100%—the more you hurt your credit score. Utilization is second only to making timely payments in terms of influence on your credit score; it contributes nearly one-third (30%) of your credit score. It's old but it's good . All other factors being the same, the longer your credit history, the higher your credit score likely will be. That doesn't help much if your recent credit history is bogged down by late payments or high utilization, and there's little you can do about it if you're a new borrower. But if you manage your credit carefully and keep up with your payments, your credit score will tend to increase over time. Age of credit history is responsible for as much as 15% of your credit score. New credit activity typically has a short-term negative effect on your credit score. Any time you apply for new credit or take on additional debt, credit-scoring systems determine that you are greater risk of being able to pay your debts. Credit scores typically dip a bit when that happens, but rebound within a few months as long as you keep up with your bills. Because of this factor, it's a good idea to "rest" six months or so between applications for new credit—and to avoid opening new accounts in the months before you plan to apply for a major loan such as a mortgage or an auto loan. New-credit activity can contribute up to 10% of your overall credit score. A variety of credit accounts promotes credit-score improvements. The FICO ® credit scoring system tends to favor individuals with multiple credit accounts, including both revolving credit (accounts such as credit cards that enable you to borrow against a spending limit and make payments of varying amounts each month) and installment loans (e.g., car loans, mortgages and student loans, with set monthly payments and fixed payback periods). Credit mix accounts for about 10% of your credit score. 60% of individuals with a 700 FICO ® Score have credit portfolios that include auto loan. 36% have a mortgage. Public records such as bankruptcies do not appear in every credit report, so these entries cannot be compared to other score influences in percentage terms. If one or more is listed on your credit report, it can outweigh all other factors and severely lower your credit score. For example, a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years, and may shut you out of access to many types of credit for much or all of that time. How to build up your credit score Your FICO ® Score is solid, and you have reasonably good odds of qualifying for a wide variety of loans. But if you can improve your credit score and eventually reach the Very Good (740-799) or Exceptional (800-850) credit-score ranges, you may become eligible for better interest rates that can save you thousands of dollars in interest over the life of your loans. Here are few steps you can take to begin boosting your credit scores. Check your FICO ScoreFICO ® regularly . Tracking your FICO ® Score can provide good feedback as you work to build up your score. Recognize that occasional dips in score are par for the course, and watch for steady upward progress as you maintain good credit habits. To automate the process, you may want to consider a credit-monitoring service. You also may want to look into an identity theft-protection service that can flag suspicious activity on your credit reports. Avoid high credit utilization rates . High credit utilization , or debt usage. Try to keep your utilization across all your accounts below about 30% to avoid lowering your score. Consumers with a 700 FICO ® Score have an average of 4.7 credit card accounts. Seek a solid credit mix . No one should take on debt they don’t need, but prudent borrowing—in the form of revolving credit and installment loans—can promote good credit scores. Pay your bills on time . You’ve heard it before, but there’s no better way to boost your credit score, so find a system that works for you and stick with it. Automated tools such as smartphone reminders and automatic bill-payment services work for many, sticky notes and paper calendars, for others. After six months or so, you may find yourself remembering without help. (Keep the system going anyway, just in case.) Learn more about your credit score A 700 FICO ® Score is Good, but by raising your score into the Very Good range, you could qualify for lower interest rates and better borrowing terms. A great way to get started is to get your free credit report from Experian and check your credit score to find out the specific factors that impact your score the most. Read more about score ranges and what a good credit score is. How good is your credit score? Enter your credit score Examples:  600 , 700 , 780 , 803 What makes a good FICO ® Score? Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICO ® Score for free and see what’s helping and hurting your score. Get your FICO ® Score No credit card required Explore more topics Report advice Improve credit Establishing credit Credit repair Life stages Fraud & identity theft Share article Experian is a globally recognized financial leader, committed to being a Big Financial Friend—empowering millions to take control of their finances. With innovative tools and expert guidance, we’re here to help you manage your credit, protect your identity, and save on loans, credit cards, and more. Our goal is simple: to help bring Financial Power to All™. Support Support Security freeze Fraud alert Disputes Denied credit Identity theft victim assistance Active duty military Opt out of prescreen offers Upload a document to Experian Education & advice Education & advice Credit report & scores Fraud & identity theft Banking Credit cards Loans Insurance Mortgage Investing Personal finance News & research Credit resources Credit resources Free credit monitoring 3-bureau reports & FICO ® Scores Check credit Improve credit Establish credit Experian CreditLock Annual credit report Download the free Experian app Carry trusted financial tools with you Experian’s Inclusion and Belonging Learn more how Experian is committed Data privacy Your privacy choices Legal terms & conditions Privacy center U.S. Consumer Data Privacy Notice Press Ad choices Careers Investor relations Contact us To view important disclosures about the Experian Smart Money™ Digital Checking Account and Digital Savings Account, visit  experian.com/legal . The Experian Smart Money™ Debit Card is issued by Community Federal Savings Bank (CFSB), pursuant to a license from Mastercard International. Banking services provided by CFSB, Member FDIC. Experian is a Program Manager, not a bank. Θ Credit score calculated based on FICO ® Score 8 model. Your lender or insurer may use a different FICO ® Score than FICO ® Score 8, or another type of credit score altogether. Learn more . Editorial Policy: The information contained in Ask Experian is for educational purposes only and is not legal advice. You should consult your own attorney or seek specific advice from a legal professional regarding any legal issues. Please understand that Experian policies change over time. Posts reflect Experian policy at the time of writing. While maintained for your information, archived posts may not reflect current Experian policy. Opinions expressed here are author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer or other company, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities, unless sponsorship is explicitly indicated. All information, including rates and fees, are accurate as of the date of publication and are updated as provided by our partners. Some of the offers on this page may not be available through our website. Offer pros and cons are determined by our editorial team, based on independent research. The banks, lenders, and credit card companies are not responsible for any content posted on this site and do not endorse or guarantee any reviews. Advertiser Disclosure: The offers that appear on this site are from third party companies that may compensate Experian Consumer Services when consumers engage with them, for example, by clicking an offer link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened. This compensation may impact how, where, and in what order the products appear on this site. The offers on the site do not represent all available financial services, companies, or products. *For complete information, see the offer terms and conditions on the issuer or partner’s website. Once you click apply you will be directed to the issuer or partner’s website where you may review the terms and conditions of the offer before applying. We show a summary, not the full legal terms – and before applying you should understand the full terms of the offer as stated by the issuer or partner itself. While Experian Consumer Services uses reasonable efforts to present the most accurate information, all offer information is presented without warranty. © 2026 Experian. All rights reserved. Experian and the Experian trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Experian and its affiliates. The use of any other trade name, copyright, or trademark is for identification and reference purposes only and does not imply any association with the copyright or trademark holder of their product or brand. Other product and company names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. Marketplace Licenses and Disclosures Insurance State Licenses Insurance Carrier Partner Details
