Visible text of https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/760-credit-score/
Fetched 2026-09-08 with curl; scripts, styles and tags removed.

760 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? - Experian Skip to main content You are using an unsupported browser. Our site may still be usable, but full functionality cannot be guaranteed. Sign in Search Credit Credit Free credit report See your latest credit information Free credit score Get to know your FICO ® Score Experian Boost ® Raise your credit scores instantly Experian Go™ Establish and build your credit Credit support Security freeze Disputes Fraud alert Contact us Credit advice Most popular What is a good credit score? Credit score ranges Average credit score in the U.S. Improving your credit How to build credit What is a credit bureau? Freeze your credit at all 3 credit bureaus How credit utilization impacts credit Credit reports How to remove credit inquiries Collections on your credit report What is a charge-off? How bankruptcy works Get credit reports from all 3 credit bureaus Check your credit report and file disputes How to remove a paid collection Credit scores Impact of paying off a credit card Reasons to have a good credit score Does checking credit score lower it? What is a perfect credit score? Different types of credit scores What factors affect your credit score? How the FICO ® Score Simulator works Why did your credit score drop? Improving credit Reasons your credit score isn’t increasing Will credit improve after debt payoff? Does a mortgage hurt your credit score? How to build credit with credit cards How to repair your credit What is Experian Boost? How utility bills can boost your credit How often a credit report is updated Establishing credit How to build credit with no credit history How to establish credit How to get first-time credit How to get credit with no credit history Credit mistakes to avoid How long does it take to build credit? How credit history affects your credit Credit cards for no credit Protection Protection Identity theft and fraud ID monitoring, alerts and protection Free dark web scan Scan for your SSN, phone and email Free personal privacy scan Find your info on people finder sites Identity Theft support Security freeze Fraud alert Disputes Contact us Identity Theft Advice Most popular What is identity theft? Fraud alert and credit freeze differences Remove fraud from your credit report Identity theft statistics What are the latest scams? Identity theft and fraud How to check for identity theft What if your Social Security number is stolen? How to avoid identity theft Types of identity theft How to protect your identity What is a fraud alert? Do fraud alerts expire? Cybersecurity What is the dark web? What is dark web monitoring? What to do about a data breach Protect your information from the dark web Tips for victims of credit card fraud What is a VPN? Privacy How to protect your info online Remove your info from people search sites How to get off robocall lists Social media safety tips Identity thieves and your personal info How to keep your SSN safe Money Money Manage your expenses Save on your monthly bills and cancel unwanted subscriptions Access cash Get cash when you need it—no interest, no late fees Digital savings account Discover a smarter way to grow your savings Digital checking account Check out a digital checking account with no monthly fees Money advice Most popular Best high-yield savings accounts Best CD rates Best money market accounts Challenges to help you save money Can you deposit money at any ATM? Savings accounts that pay high interest Opening a high-yield savings account Pros and cons of high-yield savings Save money on bills Tips for spending money wisely How to make a budget Ways to reduce expenses Ways to plan for unexpected expenses What is an emergency fund? Ways to save money What is a budget? Why is budgeting important? Access cash Best budgeting apps of 2026 What is the 50/30/20 budget rule? What is a zero-based budget? How to make a budget spreadsheet Pros and cons of debt consolidation Debt snowball strategy: how does it work? 20 ways to make extra money from home Can you direct deposit into a savings account? Digital savings account Current average savings interest rates Benefits of having a savings account Types of savings accounts Ways to earn more money on your savings Is savings account interest taxable? Average savings by age How many savings accounts should I have? Savings calculator Digital checking account What is Experian Smart Money? How do bank account bonuses work? Why was I denied a checking account? What is a high-yield checking account? Earn cash back with a debit card Pros and cons of premium checking Routing number vs. account number Why was my debit card declined? Credit Cards Credit Cards All credit card types Balance transfer Cash back For bad credit Low interest Rewards Secured Credit Card advice Most popular How to pay off credit card debt How many credit cards should I have? How to use credit cards Which credit card should I get? What is an APR? Average credit card debt Credit card payoff calculator Balance transfer How balance transfers work How long does a balance transfer take? What are balance transfer credit cards? What is a balance transfer? What is a credit utilization rate? Cash back How cash back works What is a credit card cash advance fee? Cash back vs. points For bad credit Applying for a credit card with bad credit Balance transfer cards with bad credit Getting a credit card after bankruptcy Easy store cards to get with bad credit APR What is a good APR? Lowering your credit card interest rate Fed interest rate impact on credit cards How much available credit is best? APR calculator Rewards How to choose a rewards credit card Are rewards credit cards worth it? What is a rewards credit card? Ways to redeem credit card rewards Credit score needed to get a rewards card New to credit What is a secured credit card? How to use a secured credit card Secured vs. prepaid credit cards How to get a secured credit card Secured credit card with no deposit Can I get an unsecured credit card? Loans Loans All loan types Debt consolidation Personal Loan types Quick loans Emergency loans Bad credit loans Unsecured loans Small loans $5,000 loans Personal loan for car Loan advice Most popular What is a personal loan? Emergency loans with bad credit What is a secured loan? How do personal loans impact credit? Personal loan calculator APR vs. interest rate Debt consolidation Personal loans to pay off credit card debt Payday loan consolidation What is debt consolidation? How to get a debt consolidation loan Personal Getting a personal loan with no credit check What to know before applying for a loan What is a credit-builder loan? Average personal loan debt Getting a personal loan with a cosigner Insurance Insurance Auto insurance Compare, switch and save Auto Insurance Advice Most popular Average cost of car insurance Cheapest states for car insurance Bundling home and auto insurance Top car insurance discounts How to save on car insurance Factors that impact car insurance rates How accidents affect insurance Liability vs. full coverage car insurance Sign in Consumer Small Business Business Consumer Support Financial Guidance Global Sites Advertiser Disclosure 760 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? In this article Improving your 760 Credit Score Advantages of your Very Good credit score How to keep on track with a Very Good credit score Shield your credit score from fraud Learn more about your credit score Your score falls within the range of scores, from 740 to 799, that is considered Very Good. A 760 FICO ® Score is above the average credit score. Consumers in this range may qualify for better interest rates from lenders. 25% of all consumers have FICO ® Scores in the Very Good range. Approximately 1% of consumers with Very Good FICO ® Scores are likely to become seriously delinquent in the future. Improving your 760 Credit Score A FICO ® Score of 760 is well above the average credit score of 714, but there's still some room for improvement. Among consumers with FICO ® credit scores of 760, the average utilization rate is 14.7%. The best way to determine how to improve your credit score is to check your FICO ® Score. Along with your score, you'll receive information about ways you can boost your score, based on specific information in your credit file. You'll find some good general score-improvement tips here. Advantages of your Very Good credit score A credit score in the Very Good range signifies a proven track record of timely bill payment and good credit management. Late payments and other negative entries on your credit file are rare or nonexistent, and if any appear, they are likely to be at least a few years in the past. People with credit scores of 760 typically pay their bills on time; in fact, late payments appear on just 18% of their credit reports. People like you with Very Good credit scores are attractive customers to banks and credit card issuers, who typically offer borrowers like you better-than-average lending terms. These may include opportunities to refinance older loans at better rates than you were able to get in years past, and chances to sign up for credit cards with enticing rewards as well as relatively low interest rates. How to keep on track with a Very Good credit score Your 760 credit score means you've been doing a lot right. To avoid losing ground, be mindful of avoiding behaviors that can lower your credit score. Factors that can have negative effects on Very Good credit scores include: Utilization rate on revolving credit Utilization , or usage rate, is a measure of how close you are to "maxing out" credit card accounts. You can calculate it for each of your credit card accounts by dividing the outstanding balance by the card's borrowing limit, and then multiplying by 100 to get a percentage. You can also figure your total utilization rate by dividing the sum of all your card balances by the sum of all their spending limits (including the limits on cards with no outstanding balances). Balance Spending limit Utilization rate (%) MasterCard $1,200 $4,000 30% VISA $1,000 $6,000 17% American Express $3,000 $10,000 30% Total $5,200 $20,000 26% Most experts recommend keeping your utilization rates at or below 30%— on individual accounts and all accounts in total—to avoid lowering your credit scores. The closer any of these rates gets to 100%, the more it hurts your credit score. Utilization rate is responsible for nearly one-third (30%) of your credit score. Late and missed payments matter a lot . More than one-third of your score (35%) is influenced by the presence (or absence) of late or missed payments. If late or missed payments are part of your credit history, you'll help your credit score significantly if you get into the routine of paying your bills promptly. Time is on your side . If you manage your credit carefully and stay timely with your payments, however, your credit score will tend to increase with time. In fact, if all other score influences are the same, an longer credit history will yield a higher credit score than a shorter one. There's not much you can do to change this if you're a new borrower, other than be patient and keep up with your bills. Length of credit history is responsible for as much as 15% of your credit score. Debt composition . The FICO ® credit scoring system tends to favor multiple credit accounts, with a mix of revolving credit (accounts such as credit cards that enable you to borrow against a spending limit and make monthly payments of varying amounts) and installment loans (e.g., car loans, mortgages and student loans, with set monthly payments and fixed payback periods). Credit mix is responsible for about 10% of your credit score. Credit applications and new credit accounts typically have short-term negative effects on your credit score. When you apply for new credit or take on additional debt, credit-scoring systems flag you as being at greater risk of being able to pay your bills. Credit scores drop a small amount when that happens, but typically rebound within a few months, as long as you keep up with all your payments. New credit activity can contribute up to 10% of your overall credit score. When public records appear on your credit report they can have severe negative impacts on your credit score. Entries such as bankruptcies do not appear in every credit report, so they cannot be compared to other credit-score influences in percentage terms, but they can overshadow all other factors and severely lower your credit score. A bankruptcy, for instance, can remain on your credit report for 10 years. If there are liens or judgments on your credit report, it's in your best interest to settle them as soon as possible. 61% of individuals with a 760 FICO ® Score have credit portfolios that include auto loans. 51% have a mortgage. Shield your credit score from fraud People with Very Good credit scores can be attractive targets for identity thieves, eager to hijack your hard-won credit history. To guard against this possibility, consider using credit-monitoring and identity theft-protection services that can detect unauthorized credit activity. Credit monitoring and identity theft protection services with credit lock features can alert you before criminals can take out bogus loans in your name. Credit monitoring is also useful for tracking changes in your credit scores. It can spur you to take action if your score starts to slip downward, and help you measure improvement as you work toward a FICO ® Score in the Exceptional range (800-850). Credit card fraud was the most common form of identity theft (133,015 reports), followed by employment or tax-related fraud (82,051 reports), phone or utilities fraud (55,045 reports), and bank fraud (50,517 reports) in 2017, according to the FTC. Learn more about your credit score A 760 credit score is Very Good, but it can be even better. Boosting your score into the Exceptional range could let you qualify you for the very best interest rates and terms. A great starting point is to get your check your credit score to find out the specific factors that impact your score the most. Read more about score ranges and what a good credit score is. How good is your credit score? Enter your credit score Examples:  600 , 700 , 780 , 803 What makes a good FICO ® Score? Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICO ® Score for free and see what’s helping and hurting your score. Get your FICO ® Score No credit card required Explore more topics Report advice Improve credit Establishing credit Credit repair Life stages Fraud & identity theft Share article Experian is a globally recognized financial leader, committed to being a Big Financial Friend—empowering millions to take control of their finances. With innovative tools and expert guidance, we’re here to help you manage your credit, protect your identity, and save on loans, credit cards, and more. Our goal is simple: to help bring Financial Power to All™. Support Support Security freeze Fraud alert Disputes Denied credit Identity theft victim assistance Active duty military Opt out of prescreen offers Upload a document to Experian Education & advice Education & advice Credit report & scores Fraud & identity theft Banking Credit cards Loans Insurance Mortgage Investing Personal finance News & research Credit resources Credit resources Free credit monitoring 3-bureau reports & FICO ® Scores Check credit Improve credit Establish credit Experian CreditLock Annual credit report Download the free Experian app Carry trusted financial tools with you Experian’s Inclusion and Belonging Learn more how Experian is committed Data privacy Your privacy choices Legal terms & conditions Privacy center U.S. Consumer Data Privacy Notice Press Ad choices Careers Investor relations Contact us To view important disclosures about the Experian Smart Money™ Digital Checking Account and Digital Savings Account, visit  experian.com/legal . The Experian Smart Money™ Debit Card is issued by Community Federal Savings Bank (CFSB), pursuant to a license from Mastercard International. Banking services provided by CFSB, Member FDIC. Experian is a Program Manager, not a bank. Θ Credit score calculated based on FICO ® Score 8 model. Your lender or insurer may use a different FICO ® Score than FICO ® Score 8, or another type of credit score altogether. Learn more . Editorial Policy: The information contained in Ask Experian is for educational purposes only and is not legal advice. You should consult your own attorney or seek specific advice from a legal professional regarding any legal issues. Please understand that Experian policies change over time. Posts reflect Experian policy at the time of writing. While maintained for your information, archived posts may not reflect current Experian policy. Opinions expressed here are author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer or other company, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities, unless sponsorship is explicitly indicated. All information, including rates and fees, are accurate as of the date of publication and are updated as provided by our partners. Some of the offers on this page may not be available through our website. Offer pros and cons are determined by our editorial team, based on independent research. The banks, lenders, and credit card companies are not responsible for any content posted on this site and do not endorse or guarantee any reviews. Advertiser Disclosure: The offers that appear on this site are from third party companies that may compensate Experian Consumer Services when consumers engage with them, for example, by clicking an offer link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened. This compensation may impact how, where, and in what order the products appear on this site. The offers on the site do not represent all available financial services, companies, or products. *For complete information, see the offer terms and conditions on the issuer or partner’s website. Once you click apply you will be directed to the issuer or partner’s website where you may review the terms and conditions of the offer before applying. We show a summary, not the full legal terms – and before applying you should understand the full terms of the offer as stated by the issuer or partner itself. While Experian Consumer Services uses reasonable efforts to present the most accurate information, all offer information is presented without warranty. © 2026 Experian. All rights reserved. Experian and the Experian trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Experian and its affiliates. The use of any other trade name, copyright, or trademark is for identification and reference purposes only and does not imply any association with the copyright or trademark holder of their product or brand. Other product and company names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. Marketplace Licenses and Disclosures Insurance State Licenses Insurance Carrier Partner Details
